---
title: Options
---

- _SmartPurge_. SmartPurge is Edgio's next generation tool for proactively removing content from cache. SmartPurge executes purge operations more quickly and reliably than older technologies. The advanced version of SmartPurge, SmartPurge Plus, provides additional features, including higher purge queue priority, and additional API features such as unlimited callbacks. For more information, please see Cache Purging.
- *MediaVault*. MediaVault is a high-performance URL authentication service. MediaVault’s main purpose is to help you secure your content from unauthorized viewing. For more information, please see MediaVault URL Protection.
Geo Compliance. You can use the Geo Compliance feature to restrict access to your content by geographic area. Both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses are used when determining geographic location.This feature is ideal for managing media licenses with geographic restrictions. It’s also useful for sites where advertising is a primary driver, as the audience can be constrained to the target geographies specified by the advertisers. For more information, please see Geographic URL Protection.
- *Chunked Streaming*. With Chunked Streaming, you can deliver chunked video content via HTTP and HTTPS in four different formats: HDS, HLS, MSS and MPEG-DASH. To use Chunked Streaming, you first need to chunk your content and generate the associated manifest files (Chunked Streaming does not perform these operations). You can host your content on your own origin servers or with Origin Storage. For more information, please see Configuring Chunked Streaming in the Control User Guide.
- *DNS Services*. You can use Edgio DNS Services to help balance and manage end-user requests to your origin servers and other IP resources (including requests from more than one CDN). DNS Services includes two different highly-redundant, highly-scalable DNS-based capabilities with a global footprint: Failovers balance traffic loads by dynamically routeing nameserver requests to customer IP resources (such as one or more origin web servers) on an as-needed basis. You can quickly create and manage business policies via the DNS Services management console in Control.Traffic Director is a global traffic router that directs traffic based on end user IP address, nameserver geographic location, or BGP autonomous system number.
