---
title: Response Headers
---

This guide describes the headers that {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} injects into responses, making them visible to your client code. Note that the `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-*` headers namespace is reserved for {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} internal use and setting them yourself, except where so noted, is unsupported. See [Prohibited Headers](limits#prohibited-headers) for more information.

## General Headers {/*general-headers*/}

- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-version`: version fingerprint that includes {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} version number, site build number and UTC timestamp of the build
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t`: This header contains time measurements for each {{ PRODUCT }} component through which a request was routed. It also provides cache status information for edge and global POPs. 
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-request-id`: the unique ID of the request on {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} infrastructure
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-hit-request-id`: the unique ID of the request whose cached response is being returned (not present if cache miss)
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-caching-status`: indicates why a response was or was not cached. See [Caching](/guides/caching#section_why_is_my_response_not_being_cached_).
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-surrogate-key`: a space separated list of secondary cache keys used for [cache clearing](/guides/purging#surrogate_keys) that can be injected when needed into your backend responses.

### {{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t Response Header {/*structure-of--header_prefix--t*/}

The `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t` response header contains time measurements for each {{ PRODUCT }} POP component through which a request was routed. It also provides cache status information for edge and global POPs. This data is presented sequentially according to the order in which POP components processed the request. 

[Learn how {{ PRODUCT }} routes requests.](request_headers#request-routes)

<!--
<Callout type="info">

  When a request is reentrant, telemetry information is not duplicated; instead, each request logs its own telemetry but does not return it to the downstream {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} request. As a result, duplicate entries are not possible.

</Callout>
-->

**Format:**

`{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t: <Metric 1>=<Value 1>[,<Metric 2>=<Value 2>,<Metric n>=<Value n>]`

Each metric is defined through a set of abbreviations. These abbreviations identify:

-   Who handled the request:

    -   **e**: Edge POP
    -   **g**: Global POP
    -   **p**: Serverless Compute (load balancer)
    -   **w**: Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker)

-   The [POP component](request_headers#pop-components) that processed the request:

    -   **h:** HAProxy (load balancer) 
    -   **c:** Varnish (cache)
    -   **d:** Dynamic Proxy Service (DPS)
    -   **b:** Billing
    -   **k:** Kolben
    
-   The type of metric being measured:

    -   **c:** This abbreviation represents either of the following metrics:

        -   Cache status. Valid values are: `hit | miss`. 

            For example, `ecc=miss` identifies a cache miss on an edge POP. An edge POP forwards requests that result in cache misses to a global POP.

        -   Request count. 

            For example, `pc=1` indicates the number of requests generated by the Serverless Compute (load balancer). A value greater than 1 indicates that the load balancer had to scale the request by adding it to a queue and then resubmitting it. Another example is `wc=19` which indicates that a Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker) was invoked 19 times by this request.

    -   **d:** DNS lookup time in milliseconds. 

        <Callout type="info">

          DPS uses DNS caching to accelerate requests. This means that DPS may frequently report a DNS lookup time of 0.

        </Callout>

        For example, `edd` identifies the DNS lookup time as measured by an edge POP's DPS.  

    -   **f:** Fetch time in milliseconds. This metric measures the amount of time between when a server component received a request and and when the next server component in the route received it. 

        For example, `gdf` identifies total fetch time as measured by a global POP's DPS.

    -   **g:** Age in seconds.

        For example, `wg=746940` indicates that the instance of the Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker) that processed the request has been running for approximately 747 seconds.

    -   **l:** Sum of time in milliseconds.

        For example, `wl=30896` indicates the total processing time for all Serverless Compute (Lambda Workers) for all requests is 30.8 seconds.

    -   **m:** Memory usage in Megabytes.

        For example, `wm=317` indicates that Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker) used 317 Megabytes of memory for this request.

    -   **r:** Route evaluation in milliseconds.

        For example, `wr=1` indicates that Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker) spent 1 millisecond evaluating the route through which this request will be processed.

    -   **t:** Total time in milliseconds. This metric measures the amount of time between the moment when the request was received to when a response was sent to the client.

        For example, `wbt` identifies billed time as measured by a Serverless Compute load balancer.

    -   **u:** Upstream fetch time in milliseconds. 

        For example, `pu` identifies the total time between when a Serverless Compute load balancer submitted a request defined within your application's code (e.g., fetch) and when it received a response.

#### Exceptions {/*exceptions*/}

Most metrics follow the above convention. However, there are some metrics that use a different convention. Here are a few common exceptions to the above convention:

-   **dgpop:** Identifies the global POP to which an edge POP forwarded a request.
-   **eh:** Identifies the total time as measured by an edge POP's HAProxy.
-   **gh:** Identifies the total time as measured by a global POP's HAProxy.
-   **wa:** Indicates the `transformRequest` time as measured by a Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker).
-   **wp:** Indicates the fetch or proxy time as measured by a Serverless Compute (Lambda Worker).
-   **wz:** Indicates either:

    -   **transformResponse:** If the route uses `transformResponse`, then this metric measures the `transformResponse` time in milliseconds.
    -   **Image Optimization:** If the route contains an image optimization tag, such as Next [Image](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next/image) or Nuxt [nuxt-img](https://image.nuxtjs.org/components/nuxt-img/),  instead of `transformResponse`, then this metric measures processing time.

#### Sample {{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t Response Header {/*sample-x-0-t-response-header*/}

The following sample {{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t response header is for a request that was routed through an edge POP to a global POP: 

`{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t: eh=325,ect=322,ecc=cached,edt=316,edd=0,edf=316,dgpop=hef,gh=7,gct=5,gcc=hit`

We will now examine each metric defined within the above sample response header:

| Value        | Description                                                                                              |
| -------------| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `eh=325`     | Indicates the total time from an edge POP's HAProxy was 325 milliseconds.                                |
| `ect=322`    | Indicates the total time from an edge POP's Varnish (cache) was 322 milliseconds.                        |
| `ecc=cached` | Indicates that a cached version of the requested content was found on the edge POP's Varnish (cache).    |
| `edt=316`    | Indicates the total time from an edge POP's DPS was 316 milliseconds.                                    |
| `edd=0`      | Indicates the DNS lookup time for an edge POP's DPS was 0 milliseconds. This typically means that DPS used DNS caching.   |
| `edf=316`    | Indicates the fetch time from an edge POP's DPS was 316 milliseconds.                                    |
| `dgpop=hef`  | Indicates that the edge POP forwarded the request to the HEF global POP.                                 |
| `gh=7`       | Indicates the total time from a global POP's HAProxy was 7 milliseconds.                                 |
| `gct=5`      | Indicates the total time from a global POP's Varnish (cache) was 5 milliseconds.                         |
| `gcc=hit`    | Indicates that a cached version of the requested content was found on the global POP's Varnish (cache).  |

### Examples {/*examples*/}
The examples below use a response that traversed from the edge, to global and to serverless:
##### _{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t_ {/*-header_prefix--t*/}
<!-- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t: eh=1160,ect=1158,ecc=miss,edt=1152,edd=0,edf=1152,gh=869,gct=866,gcc=miss,gdt=853,gdd=0,gdf=853,pt=811,pc=1,pf=809,wbt=723,wm=317,wt=722,wc=19,wg=746940,wl=30896,wr=1,wp=705,wa=1,wz=1` -->
`eh=1160,ect=1158,ecc=miss,edt=1152,edd=0,edf=1152,gh=869,gct=866,gcc=miss,gdt=853,gdd=0,gdf=853,pt=811,pc=1,pf=809,wbt=723,wm=317,wt=722,wc=19,wg=746940,wl=30896,wr=1,wp=705,wa=1,wz=1`

Below is a translation of each value in this example:

| Value | Description |
| -------------- | -------------- |
| `eh=1160`  | Edge POP total time of 1160ms |
| `ect=1158` | Edge POP Varnish total time of 1158ms |
| `ecc=miss` | Edge POP Cache Miss, on miss the request will go to global POP |
| `edt=1152` | Edge POP DPS total time of 1015ms |
| `edd=0`    | Edge DPS DNS lookup time of 0ms (We do DNS caching in DPS to accerate requests, so 0 is common and expected) |
| `edf=1152` | Edge DPS Fetch time of 1152ms |
| `gh=869`   | Global POP HAProxy total time of 869ms |
| `gct=866`  | Global POP Varnish total time of 866ms |
| `gcc=miss` | Global POP Cache Miss - on miss request will go to backend |
| `gdt=853`  | Global POP DPS total time of 853ms |
| `gdd=0`    | Global POP DNS Lookup time of 0ms (implying cached DNS lookup) |
| `gdf=853`  | Global POP DPS fetch time to backend of 853ms |
| `pt=811`   | Serverless Load Balancer Total time of 811ms |
| `pc=1`     | Serverless Load Balancer total request count. if > 1 it implies scaling where we had to queue and retry this request |
| `pf=809`   | Serverless Load Balancer Total Fetch time to serverless of 809ms |
| `wbt=723`  | Serverless billed time of 723ms. This includes serverless workload time plus time spent capturing serverless logs. |
| `wm=317`   | Serverless worker memory used 317 MB |
| `wt=722`   | Serverless workload time of 722ms |
| `wc=19`    | Number of times this specific serverless instance has been invoked (19) |
| `wg=746940`| Age of this serverless instance of 747s |
| `wl=30896` | Sum of worker times across all requests of 30.8s |
| `wr=1`     | Time spent evaluating route of 1ms|
| `wp=705`   | Worker fetch or proxy time of 705ms |
| `wa=1`     | `transformRequest` time |
| `wz=1`     | If the route is using `transformResponse`, this is the `transformResponse` time in ms. If the route does not contain a transform, but contains an image optimization tag, like Next [Image](https://nextjs.org/docs/api-reference/next/image) or Nuxt [nuxt-img](https://image.nuxtjs.org/components/nuxt-img/) this is that processing time |

##### _{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-status_ {/*-header_prefix--status*/}
The `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-status` header will show the response codes received from the preceding service at each step in the process
`{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-status: eh=200,ed=200,gh=200,gd=200,p=200,w=200`

##### _{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-components_ {/*-header_prefix--components*/}
`{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-components`. This is most useful for {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} in identifying the versions of each service, the id of the environment, and which backend serviced the request

`{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-components: eh=0.1.6,e=atl,ec=1.1.0,ed=1.0.1,gh=0.1.6,g=hef,gd=1.0.1,p=1.21.10,w=3.11.0,wi=e8ce8753-163d-4be9-a39e-40454ace5146,b=serverless`

## Server Timing {/*server-timing*/}

{{ PRODUCT_NAME }} adds the following values to the standard [server-timing](https://www.w3.org/TR/server-timing/) response header:

- layer0-cache: desc=`value` - value will be one of:
  - `HIT-L1` - The page was served from the edge cache
  - `HIT-L2` - The page was served from the shield cache
  - `MISS` - The page could not be served from the cache
- country: desc=`country_code` - where country_code is the two letter code of the country from which the request was sent.
- xrj: desc=`route` - where route is the matched route serialized as JSON.

## Serverless Timing {/*serverless-timing*/}

### Cold start timing {/*serverless-cold-start-timing*/}

To calculate the Serverless cold start timing you must take the difference between `pf` and `wt` in the `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-t` header. `wt` is time taken for the lambda to execute after it has started, this is can be read as the time is takes the project code to execute. If that seems large, evaluate the code within your project to see why this might be. To [track timings](/guides/performance#tracking-your-own-timings) for a function, it is possible to add specific code to do that. 

Based on the example above, that would be `809 (pf) - 722 (wt) = 87ms`. 

## Troubleshooting Headers {/*troubleshooting-headers*/}

The following headers are used internally by {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} staff to troubleshoot issues with requests.

- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-status`: HTTP status that each component in {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} returned (can vary depending on the component)
- `{{ HEADER_PREFIX }}-components`: version of various components in {{ PRODUCT_NAME }} critical path that serviced your request
